Prince, Here we are practicing on our known concepts.
They are like logical AND logical or if an if else statements with simple shell script.
The purpose of shells copies just to verify whether HTTPD is installed or not.
And if it is installed,
then I need to find the washing off that installed history, DBT.
Let me go with step-by-step.
First, I will implement the logic just to verify whether actually
BD is installed or mark and friends,
we can implement this logic with the different ways.
There are different possibilities to implement this logic.
I will show you all the possibilities you just go with,
whichever is simple for you.
Let me open a shell script L. Let me take subscript name as suppose HTTPD,
Washington dot SH, The very first line.
I am writing our shebang line.
Then after that, I'm writing some comments.
Let's say who implemented this shell script?
Then what is the purpose of this shell script?
Finding HTTPD was shen.
If it is installed, let me save it.
As of now, we don't have any logic to execute in
our shell script because we have only shebang line and two comments.
Anyway, comments won't execute while learning your shell script.
C that I'm running, that is notebook.
Now, before going to write your logic inside of your shell script,
suppose if HTTPD services installed on your host,
then you can verify with which HTTPD so that you will get the location of that HUD.
But if it is installed, and after running that command,
cd status of that success,
if HTTPD is there,
this command will do exit status as 0.
Let me verify with HTTPD.
Suppose some other package.
Then offer that CD exit status.
That means while working with which command,
if that's obvious is there,
it will do the Xist raters as if it is not there,
it will exit status as one.
We know how to club two commands by using
logical AND logical OR Let me Club two commands using logical and operator.
First, let me show you that simple syntax.
We already know that command one,
logical end commander to.
Now we know that command will execute if command one is success.
So what I'm doing is command when I'm taking which HTTPD,
if it is success means actually buddies present on this host.
That's why the second command I am writing simply echo HTTPD is installed on this host.
Let me copy this and paste it on your terminal and see the result.
Httpd is installed on this host.
Anyway, we no need this output.
That's why what I'm doing is 4y foster command,
whether you are going to get an output out success output.
I don't want to see that because
our second command is depending on the exit status of this command.
And if it is success, it will execute.
If it is failed, it would exclude.
So what I am doing is that output foster command output I am nullifying.
I don't want to capture that.
Now, see that.
Now I will do one more thing.
Let me remove my HUD beauty.
And my host, I removed.
Now let me run our command and see the result.
It is not displayed because now this command was failed.
If it is phase, then logical and operator,
operator doesn't allow px.
Good next to command, a second command will execute only if the first command is success.
Why it is getting fail because he's not installed.
Let me take this logic and let me write copy that into our shell script.
These very first way,
simple way just to display.
If heterogeneity is installed. Let me open that.
But that's, let me save it underneath.
You're not getting an awkward because actually it is not installed.
Suppose, if actually believes there,
let me install my history degree.
Now he cheated buddies there, you are getting your output.
So as of now you are shell script is displaying
the output like Hetchy deputies installed on this host.
If everybody is present,
if it is not present, then we are not displaying any information.
That's fine. Now, same command.
If you remember, this command also,
we can implement in terms of if condition as well,
only simply IF which HTTPD.
Let me take that redirection.
I want to read it out,
put into del null VCF file.
We're nullifying the output.
Let me copy and paste this entire thing.
Otherwise, cost, let me write the syntax of your simple if condition,
if command one, then close with their fight,
then here you can add any number of commands.
So the way how this syntax is working,
the same way you are simple.
If will work. Combined one is success,
then only command we will excuse.
Or simply if command one is success,
then the lines which are there between then and phi,
those lines will execute.
That one day with the if condition is,
you can execute a number of lines here.
A number of commands that to independently.
But if I want to execute one more command here,
I need to club with suppose logical end, then command.
But command three will exclude if command to
his success and command legs could have command one is success.
Finally, to exclude command three,
these two commands must be success.
But here if command one is success, commands,
and command three will execute without
depending command three on the exit status of command.
That is that one digit symbol.
But as of now, you can go with either first logic.
I mean, with this logic.
Let me remove last command three.
So first-line logic, simple if condition,
you can use any one of that.
So this Laozi is nothing but the first recommend, whatever we have.
Then close with their file.
And between then and therefore,
whatever the lines you want to execute,
this command is success.
Those lines we can write here.
So as of now, if that command is success means HUD buddies present.
That's why I'm running this command.
Let say. So this is one more way.
Let me copy.
Open your heterogeneity Wusheng shell script.
Let me comment this line.
Now I'm pasting our logic.
Let me rearrange spaces so guys be clear.
Between then and F phi,
you can add any number of lines without giving any spaces at very first,
without giving any indentation.
Indentation is nothing but space.
But just upon looking purpose,
I'm giving at least two or four spaces.
Nazi, That is my intention.
You can do any number of spaces.
Let me save it and run.
Your getting.
Everybody is installed on the source.
In case if HTTPD is not installed,
then you won't get output here.
We will see that as of now,
if HTTPD is installed, then only you will get output.
This allows the console.
You can implement with one more way.
What is that means weekly up there is somewhat confused but very simple.
First, I will run this command.
First. I will run that command after that.
See you after earning any command,
if you display a chordal question-mark value,
that is nothing but existed,
a software command, whatever you ran previously.
So after running this command,
I'm storing the HTTPD status.
I'm, I mean, I'm taking a variable called HTTPD status equals $2 question mark.
So if this command is success than dollar percent mark evaluates to
0 and that value we are storing into this in case if it is failed,
then it will do.
You can status as non-zero that we're storing into this.
Now, this variable value,
I will use an if condition.
If you remember, we have a test command to compress some numbers or some strings.
Now what I'm using, what I am doing here is this value,
whatever it is that inside of this dot value,
I'm comparing with 0.
See how I'm comparing.
You heard right, some command here that is test to command for testicle manually 100,
take double square brackets.
So whatever the value is there inside of your HTTPD dot value,
I'm comparing with 0.
If it is 0, this value is equal to 0, means not optional.
Mac value is 0. Then this command was success.
That means first let me write syntax.
Now here I can write now,
if it is success means Not a question
mark because that value only we are sorting into this.
You really do domains. This command is success.
That means actually been installed.
That's why this logic I can write here.
Now, this one and this one both are same,
but the unnecessary writing two extra lengths.
But sometimes you may need this type of logic also.
Fine. Now, let me Xcode that logic as well.
Copy this entire logic,
whatever script open us.
And let me comment this multiple lines.
So to come into your multiple lines,
you have to take multi-line comments syntax.
That's it.
Let me copy and paste your logic.
See while running your shell script,
this line will execute so that the operating system knows
that bash is the shell to execute this shell script.
Then, which actually booty,
if HTTPD is present,
then the exit status of this command is that we are storing into this and that value.
I'm comparing annuity if condition if both valleys or these value I'm combining with 0.
If this is 0, then there is success. If it is success, you know.
In case if everybody's not installed,
the odd question mark values non-GMO,
that value we are storing into this dot value we are comparing with 0.
So if it is non-zero,
then these two are not equal.
If they are not equal, this entire thing will get fail.
Fail means you are if doesn't
allow to execute the lines which are there between, then and.
That's very nice.
All three logics are same, same purpose.
Now let me save it. And I'm running that.
Let me remove your HTTPD.
I removed my HUD pretty,
but I am running, no, I'm not getting output.
So now if you're HTTPD is installed,
then we are displaying the output.
If it is not installed,
it we have not displayed.
But my intention is if it is installed,
I have to say yes, hatchability installed.
If it is not, then how to display HTTPD is not installed.
C. Now, I'm taking these two commands concept.
If you remember, if you combine them with
some other command by using logical or operator,
command three will execute if command one is failed or command is fair.
If any one of these two commands or fail,
then command through links skewed.
So when this command one will fail,
command one is nothing but let me take this to command one.
We fail if actually please not installed,
i've datetime command tree will fail means attribute is not there.
That's why I'm covering with the logical OR,
and here I am writing a HUD beauty is not installed.
So this is actually we need for our concept.
Let me copy it and go to your shell script.
And let me comment now your previous logic.
So finally we will create our complete code. Comment 22.
I am writing suppose on the here.
And now let me run our shell script. Be clear.
As of now you have only one line in your shell script
and this is the line remaining. All are commentary.
Now let me run on, see that is HTTPD is not installed.
Now, if you install your hips to the beauty on this host.
And after dark, if you run your shell script,
now it will say, hey,
chip, it is installed.
Let's say one more thing.
Same syntax, same logic.
You can implement in terms of if and else statements.
Let me get the syntax Costs. Command one.
Then L Ye Fei.
Knife command one is success.
Whatever you want to run the command or commands you
want to run those commands you have to write here between then and else.
And if command when is faith?
Whatever commands you want be excluded.
If command one is fail,
those commands you heard right,
between L and M are simply then block and block.
Now, based on this,
you can not only single command,
you can add multiple number of commands here.
If you take, if statements.
That's, you know, I will use this concept.
Of course that is fine.
But he can also implement it in this way.
Now let me run, let me create it.
If whatever the first command you are
having that will decide whether actually liquidity is not there are installed.
Then. Else, if I now between then and else,
whatever the commands you are writing, those will execute.
If this is success, this is success means HUD beauties.
And if this fails, if this is fail,
that means you will this block between then and else,
whatever the lines you are having, those will skip.
An else block will execute any one of the legs.
Good, either then block or else block,
then it legs good if this is success.
As we legs good, if this is fail.
Now if it is failed, we know what is the meaning for
that Hetchy liquidity is not installed.
That's a
pretty simple one.
Now opening a shell script,
price all our possibilities.
Sometimes you need one line command to decide whether something is there or not.
Sometimes you may need multiple,
but try to understand
different approaches so that whenever you have a requirement based on that,
we will select, as I've not tried to practice this concept Nazi.
Anyway, I will show you when you need if and when you read
only single-line comments combining with the logical AND logical OR operator.
Now let me save it and run it.
Hedge anybody's installed on this host?
Let me remove because you need to verify each and every one.
Each and every lousy. Now I'm running.
Heterogeneity is not installed.
That's fine.
Suppose if you are HTTPD is there,
then I need to find Watson as well.
That is actually our concept.
Now, be clear.
If I go with command one, command two,
command three concepts in a single line.
If this is success,
HUD buddies, I need to run this command.
And along with that, I need to add one more comment.
Of course, you can also clubbing here itself.
But that is not a good practice that way.
Based on foster command, if it is success,
if you want to run multiple commands are based on foster command. If it is.
If you want to run multiple commands,
please go with if-else concept.
You can also write single end,
but as a beginner, you may get confused for that.
And better brackets is if else,
When we go with if-else based on this command,
if you want to execute multiple commands,
multiple logics here, are here,
then block or else block.
If you want to execute multiple commands or logics, then go with the.
Now what I am doing is if this is success,
then here I want to be split this along that I need to find HUD Billy Watson,
and then I need to display that.
Let me open your shell scripts.
Before that.
How to financially pretty Russian,
If you remember HTTPD hyphen v.
And on this output that it'll apply your AW k with
the fields operator as space under slash ways based on slash.
If you see in this line, based on spaces,
if you split your line, this is foster,
these secondary and this is, this is port two.
But we needed our Wusheng from here.
So before the Russians class is the now time,
if I can able to split the one line based on spaces and
slashes so that I can feel these Foster Field secondary particles.
That's why I'm taking here pattern for your fields. Fields operator.
If you go with Cut command,
you cannot write this type of patterns only in AWS. You can, right?
Then, after that, first I am trying to print the line in which we have Wusheng.
Let me write down what Shen.
Then let me first printer that entitling and seed output.
Something means I need to write one more single quotation here. Yes.
Oh, yes.
Now you are getting your coastline bailed on Washington.
But do you also give an feels operator as space and slash?
That's why this will become four to field.
Now instead of printing and tie line,
I'm printing for the,
let's say now this is the command to find the Wusheng for HTTPD.
Let me open yourself script. Now.
I'm using if and else concept.
Because if actually bid is there any takes goto commands.
If I want to execute only one command and I can go with this type of logic.
Now.
This output, I will store it into some variable,
let's say HTTPD shen equals two.
That is the command. We know how to store the command output
India variable by using dollar parenthesis.
Now I will display echo.
The Wusheng of HTTPD is simply your variable,
which we have in our hands.
Let's try to understand the difference between if-else and simply with
one lane combining with three commands by using
logical AND logical OR in place of this actually I need to execute three lines.
See 123. That's why I'm not going with this logic.
I'm going with if and else.
Anyone else has only one length.
Maybe if you want to write any number of lenses, you can write it.
That is the advantage with if-else.
Now let me save it and run it.
And here also you can modify one more or less.
Like if you observe here.
First I will run this,
then I will take this status.
I will compare in this way.
But why should I have done is a little more extra lines and that's
quite directly in each collision self I'm writing command one.
Anyone is correct, you can go with this one or this one.
So finally, this is the logic to verify whether hedge rebooted installed or not.
If it is installed, you can find the Watson for that. That's it.
Ok. Thank you.